README.md, before:

# Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter

An adapter for the Radicle CI Broker (`rad:zwTxygwuz5LDGBq255RA2CbNGrz8`) that will report back to the broker the 
results from GitHub Actions that are executed for each push.

## Documentation

### Repository Setup

The steps for setting up a repository that works with the Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter can be found at 
[docs/project_setup.md](docs/project_setup.md).

## Getting Started

### Requirements

The minimum requirement for compiling and running this application are:
- Go v1.21
- make

Alongside the Radicle CI Broker, a Radicle node must be running on the same host.
`radicle-httpd` is also required alongside the `RAD_SESSION_TOKEN` in order to add patch comments when a 
workflow completes. It is also required that the specific Radicle node is added as a delegate to the repositories in 
order to have appropriate permissions to add comments into patches.

### Configuration

The application uses configuration through Environment Variables. Here is a list with the details and the default
value for each one of them:

| EnvVar                        | Description                                                                  | Default Value           |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| `LOG_LEVEL`                   | Set the log level of the application.<br>(`debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`). | "info"                  |
| `RAD_HOME`                    | Path for radicle home directory.                                             | "~/.radicle"            |
| `RAD_HTTPD_URL`               | Public URL of radicle's HTTPD.                                               | "http://127.0.0.1:8080" |
| `RAD_SESSION_TOKEN`           | Session token for accessing Radicle API.                                     | ""                      |
| `GITHUB_PAT`                  | Personal access token for GitHub.                                            | ""                      |
| `WORKFLOWS_START_LAG_SECS`    | Lag time before giving up checking for GitHub's commit and workflows.        | 60                      |
| `WORKFLOWS_POLL_TIMEOUT_SECS` | Polling timeout for workflows completion.                                    | 1800                    |

> `GITHUB_PAT` should have at least read access for the repo and the actions/workflows. Please check GitHub's [rate 
> limiting policy](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/using-the-rest-api/rate-limits-for-the-rest-api) 
 
> `WORKFLOWS_START_LAG_SECS` is a necessary lag time as it is possible to push first to the radicle forge and then to 
> GitHub. This would generate an error as the adapter won't be able to find the commit at GitHub or the workflows 
> might have not been spawned.  
 
### Running the application

In order to build the **Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter** execute the provided makefile under project's root directory:

```bash
make build
```
This will generate the executable `/tmp/bin/radicle-github-actions-adapter`.

In order to build and run the application execute under project's root directory:

```bash
make run
```

Standard I/O is used for communication with the broker. Logging is directed to stderr.

> Radicle broker requires an executable of the adapter. Use `make build` to get only the binary

### Versioning

Application uses Version Control System's metadata. In order to specify a binary's version it is generated from the
revision of the source code and optionally the dirty flag which indicates if the binary contains uncommitted changes.
Here is an example version: `eecd4b8a194a24674b0ec30e60ef8c150918b975-dirty`

### Application arguments

Application binary accepts specific arguments at init time. There are:

| Argument   | Example                                           | Description                                                                                                       | Default Value |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `version`  | ./radicle-github-actions-adapter --version        | Prints only the binary's version and exits                                                                        | _empty_       |
| `loglevel` | ./radicle-github-actions-adapter --loglevel debug | Set the log level of the application.<br>(`debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`)<br/>Overrides the Env Var `LOG_LEVEL` | "info"        |

### Adapter Input - Output

Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter accepts messages and responds to Radicle CI Broker through std IO. The following messages
are exchanges throughout the adapter's runtime:

1. Incoming _Push Event Request_ or _Patch Event Request_ message as described at
   `rad:zwTxygwuz5LDGBq255RA2CbNGrz8/tree/doc/architecture.md`

2. Outgoing response message with the job ID:

```json
{
    "response": "triggered",
    "run_id": "<RUN-UUID>"
}
```
3. Outgoing response message with the response result:

```json
{
   "response": "finished",
   "result": "<success|failure>"
}
```

If at least on job fails the result will be considered as failed.

In case of an unexpected error the following response message is provided

```json
{
  "response": "finished",
  "result": {
    "error": "details of the error occurred"
  }
}
```

## Contribute

Open an issue for discussing any issue or bug.
Open a patch for adding a new feature or any kind of fix.  
Use appropriate commands from makefile to ensure application correctness.  
For a complete list of makefile commands run:
```
make help
```

Commit message:

Updates readme with versioning info

README.md, after:

# Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter

An adapter for the Radicle CI Broker (`rad:zwTxygwuz5LDGBq255RA2CbNGrz8`) that will report back to the broker the 
results from GitHub Actions that are executed for each push.

## Documentation

### Repository Setup

The steps for setting up a repository that works with the Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter can be found at 
[docs/project_setup.md](docs/project_setup.md).

## Getting Started

### Requirements

The minimum requirement for compiling and running this application are:
- Go v1.21
- make

Alongside the Radicle CI Broker, a Radicle node must be running on the same host.
`radicle-httpd` is also required alongside the `RAD_SESSION_TOKEN` in order to add patch comments when a 
workflow completes. It is also required that the specific Radicle node is added as a delegate to the repositories in 
order to have appropriate permissions to add comments into patches.

### Configuration

The application uses configuration through Environment Variables. Here is a list with the details and the default
value for each one of them:

| EnvVar                        | Description                                                                  | Default Value           |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| `LOG_LEVEL`                   | Set the log level of the application.<br>(`debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`). | "info"                  |
| `RAD_HOME`                    | Path for radicle home directory.                                             | "~/.radicle"            |
| `RAD_HTTPD_URL`               | Public URL of radicle's HTTPD.                                               | "http://127.0.0.1:8080" |
| `RAD_SESSION_TOKEN`           | Session token for accessing Radicle API.                                     | ""                      |
| `GITHUB_PAT`                  | Personal access token for GitHub.                                            | ""                      |
| `WORKFLOWS_START_LAG_SECS`    | Lag time before giving up checking for GitHub's commit and workflows.        | 60                      |
| `WORKFLOWS_POLL_TIMEOUT_SECS` | Polling timeout for workflows completion.                                    | 1800                    |

> `GITHUB_PAT` should have at least read access for the repo and the actions/workflows. Please check GitHub's [rate 
> limiting policy](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/using-the-rest-api/rate-limits-for-the-rest-api) 
 
> `WORKFLOWS_START_LAG_SECS` is a necessary lag time as it is possible to push first to the radicle forge and then to 
> GitHub. This would generate an error as the adapter won't be able to find the commit at GitHub or the workflows 
> might have not been spawned.  
 
### Running the application

In order to build the **Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter** execute the provided makefile under project's root directory:

```bash
make build
```
This will generate the executable `/tmp/bin/radicle-github-actions-adapter`.

In order to build and run the application execute under project's root directory:

```bash
make run
```

Standard I/O is used for communication with the broker. Logging is directed to stderr.

> Radicle broker requires an executable of the adapter. Use `make build` to get only the binary

### Application arguments

Application binary accepts specific arguments at init time. There are:

| Argument   | Example                                           | Description                                                                                                       | Default Value |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `version`  | ./radicle-github-actions-adapter --version        | Prints only the binary's version and exits                                                                        | _empty_       |
| `loglevel` | ./radicle-github-actions-adapter --loglevel debug | Set the log level of the application.<br>(`debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`)<br/>Overrides the Env Var `LOG_LEVEL` | "info"        |

### Versioning

Application uses SemVer version releases withVersion Control System's metadata. In order to specify a binary's version
it is generated from the revision of the source code and optionally the dirty flag which indicates if the binary
contains uncommitted changes. Here is an example version output: 
```
version: development, build_time: Fri Feb 16 16:53:24 EET 2024, revision: e63d3e19138f7165d11a5d046a1703ba06a69b23-dirty
```
A `development` version indicates that the specific build didn't produce from a specific released version.
Builds that originate from specific released versions contain information like this:
```
version: v0.5.1, build_time: Fri Feb 16 16:53:24 EET 2024, revision: e63d3e19138f7165d11a5d046a1703ba06a69b23
```

### Adapter Input - Output

Radicle GitHub Actions Adapter accepts messages and responds to Radicle CI Broker through std IO. The following messages
are exchanges throughout the adapter's runtime:

1. Incoming _Push Event Request_ or _Patch Event Request_ message as described at
   `rad:zwTxygwuz5LDGBq255RA2CbNGrz8/tree/doc/architecture.md`

2. Outgoing response message with the job ID:
```json
{
    "response": "triggered",
    "run_id": "<RUN-UUID>"
}
```
3. Outgoing response message with the response result:

```json
{
   "response": "finished",
   "result": "<success|failure>"
}
```

If at least on job fails the result will be considered as failed.

In case of an unexpected error the following response message is provided
```json
{
  "response": "finished",
  "result": {
    "error": "details of the error occurred"
  }
}
```

## Contribute

Open an issue for discussing any issue or bug.
Open a patch for adding a new feature or any kind of fix.  
Use appropriate commands from makefile to ensure application correctness.  
For a complete list of makefile commands run:
```
make help
```
